Publish example configuration for NFS volume mounts (#411)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/v0.25/06_manage-astronomer/11_configure-nfs.md

---

> title: "Enable NFS Volume DAG Deployments"
> navTitle: "Configure NFS Volumes"
> description: "How to set up an NFS volume for DAG deployment"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Configure NFS Volume-based DAG Deploys on Astronomer"
navTitle: "Configure NFS Volumes"
description: "How to set up NFS volume-based DAG deploys for Apache Airflow on Astronomer Enterprise."
```

Reviewer: Consistency in enable/configure, and added a few SEO buzz words in description

---

## Overview

Starting in Astronomer Enterprise v0.25, you can use an external [Network File System (NFS) Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#nfs) to deploy DAGs to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.

> Unlike [deploying DAGs via the Astronomer CLI](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli), deploying DAGs to an NFS volume, such as Azure File Storage or Google Cloud Filestore, does not require rebuilding a Docker image and restarting your underlying Airflow service. When a DAG is added to an NFS volume, it automatically appears in the Airflow UI without requiring additional action or causing downtime.

Author: @cmarteepants Can you help me fill in this sentence? "This type of setup is particularly useful for organizations that [ ]"

Reviewer 2: ... have a dedicated team responsible for the health of Astronomer Enterprise and for bootstrapping and managing Airflow deployments, and who value a clear separation between Airflow environment code, and code from dag authors.

Reviewer 2: I don't love it, but high-level it comes to that, and the need to keep airflow deployments standard across the organization

This guide provides the necessary setup for connecting an NFS volume to Astronomer as a DAG deploy option. Some considerations before completing this setup:

- NFS volumes are used only for DAG deploys. To add dependencies or other requirements to your Deployment, you still need to set them in your `requirements.txt` and `packages.txt` files and rebuild your image via the CLI as described in [Customize Images](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/develop/customize-image).

> - DAGs must be deployed directly to NFS volumes. They cannot be deployed via the Astronomer CLI or an Astronomer service account. For an example of how to configure DAG deploys, see Step 6 of [Provision an NFS Volume (Amazon EFS)](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/manage-astronomer/configure-nfs).

Reviewer: (Was gonna make comments to update this language, but realizing you can just rebase once we merge #396 )

## Provision an NFS Volume

While you can use any NFS volume for this step, we recommend using your cloud provider's primary NFS volume solution:

* GCP: [Filestore](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/creating-instances)
* Azure: [File Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/files/storage-files-how-to-create-nfs-shares?tabs=azure-portal)
* AWS: [EFS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/getting-started.html)

For each NFS volume you provision for DAG deploys, you need to configure:

* A directory for DAGs.

> * Read access for a user with GID `50000` and UID `50000`. For an example setup of this, read [Configuring Ip-based access control](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/creating-instances#configuring_ip-based_access_control) in Google Cloud's documentation.

Author: @cmarteepants I didn't see the equivalent step for this in your setup, is this something we can remove or do we need to be more general with our recommendations?

Reviewer 2: It wasn't needed for AWS; probably GCP specific

Reviewer: Should we call out that this consideration is GCP specific, so AWS users don't try to find the equivalent?

See the following section for a complete setup for NFS Volume-based DAG deploys using Amazon EFS.

## Provision an NFS Volume (Amazon EFS)

> Use this topic to configure and automate the process for moving DAGs from multiple repos into a single Amazon EFS storage system.

Reviewer: "Use this topic" language sounds kinda off to me - do you "use" a topic or section? I'd say "Follow"

> Use this topic to configure and automate the process for moving DAGs from multiple repos into a single Amazon EFS storage system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this topic to configure and automate the process of migrating DAG files from multiple repos into a single Amazon EFS storage system.
```

In this example setup, you use `kubectl cp` to copy DAGs from a git repository into an intermediary Kubernetes pod that shares the same NFS volume mount as an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.

### Prerequisites

To complete this setup, you need:

- [eksctl](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eksctl.html)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

> - Astronomer version 0.25.x or higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Astronomer v0.25+
```

Reviewer: Should prob be a lil more explicit these days on Product with Gen2Cloud coming & more risk for confusion

### Step 1: Create OIDC provider and link to your EKS instance

> Instead of adding extra permissions to the IAM role for the EKS worker nodes, best practice is to leverage IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) so that services can communicate with AWS APIs directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of adding extra permissions to the IAM role for the EKS worker nodes, we recommend that users leverage IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) so that services can communicate with AWS APIs directly.
```

1. Export environment variables specific to your installation:

    ```bash
    export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<your-eks-region>
    export CLUSTER_NAME=<your-cluster-name>
    ```

> 2. Check if you have already have a linked OIDC Provider by running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check if you already have a linked OIDC Provider by running the following commands:
```

    ```bash
    aws eks describe-cluster --name ${CLUSTER_NAME} --query "cluster.identity.oidc.issuer" --output text

    # copy last part of url from output
    # for example,
    # in the output: https://oidc.eks.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/id/EXAMPLED539D4633E53DE1B716D3041E
    # copy "EXAMPLED539D4633E53DE1B716D3041E"

>     export ISSUER_ID=EXAMPLED539D4633E53DE1B716D3041E
> 
>     aws iam list-open-id-connect-providers | grep ${ISSUER_ID}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    export ISSUER_ID=<example-ID>

    aws iam list-open-id-connect-providers | grep ${ISSUER_ID}
```

Unclear what values the Astronomer user is supposed to fill in here?

    ```

    If there is no output after the last command, create an OIDC provider:

    ```bash

>     eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} --approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster $<your-cluster-name> --approve
```

Consistency with `<your-cluster-name>` above

    ```

### Step 2: Install an EFS CSI driver and EFS file system

> The EFS file system stores your Airflow code, while the EFS CSI driver manages communication between the EFS file system and your EKS cluster. To set up these components, follow the [Amazon documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/efs-csi.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EFS file system stores Airflow DAG code, while the EFS CSI driver manages communication between the EFS file system and your EKS cluster. To set up these components, follow [Amazon documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/efs-csi.html).
```

> ### Step 3: Enable NFS Volume Storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Enable NFS Volume Storage on Astronomer
```

NFS volume deploys must be explicitly enabled on Astronomer by a System Admin. To enable it, update your `config.yaml` file with the following values:

```yaml
houston:
  config:
      deployments:
        configureDagDeployment: true
        nfsMountDagDeployment: true
```

Once you have saved the file, push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a Platform Configuration Change on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/manage-astronomer/apply-platform-config). This process needs to be completed only once per Astronomer installation.

### Step 4: Configure Astronomer Deployments

> For each Deployment you want to connect to your EFS file storage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each Airflow Deployment you want to connect to your EFS file storage:
```

> 1. In the Astronomer UI, create a new Airflow Deployment or open an existing one.

Reviewer: Step 1 might be redundant here if you're already assuming a Deployment exists "For each..."

2. Go to the **DAG Deployment** section of the Deployment's Settings page.
3. For your **Mechanism**, select **NFS Volume Mount**:

    ![Custom Release Name Field](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/astronomer-ui/nfs.png)

> 4. In the **NFS Location** field that appears, enter the location of your volume-based DAG directory as `<IP>:/<path>` (for example: `192.168.0.1:/path/to/your/dags`).

Reviewer 2: AWS Specific: EFS is multi-region, and attaching the mount-point via IP means there is no failover. They should really use the DNS format - `<efs-file-system-id>.efs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com:/` so that traffic can be routed to different mount points

Also: for `/path/to/dags` part to work they will need to setup Access Points in EFS. We can keep it, but it might cause confusion since in my example - they are being stored in EFS in `/dags` but if you included that in the path, it won't work due to how the k8s manifest is built.

5. Save your changes.

> 6. Save the following as `efs-nfs.yaml`. Replace `<your-file-system-id>` with the EFS file-system-id and `< airflow-deployment-namespace>` with the namespace of your Airflow Deployment (typically `astronomer-<Astronomer-release-name>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Save the following as `efs-nfs.yaml`. Replace `<your-file-system-id>` with the EFS file-system-id and `<your-airflow-deployment-namespace>` with the namespace of your Airflow Deployment. This is typically `astronomer-<your-deployment-release-name>`.
```

A few Qs:
- Where is this yaml file saved?
- Where does the user get `EFS file-system-id`?

Reviewer 2: 1) wherever they want - it's a k8s manifest. just need it somewhere so that the manifest can be applied.
2) It's the ID for EFS. Can find it on the dashboard. I had instructions on creating an EFS instance, but they weren't included

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolume
    metadata:
      name: nfs-sync
    spec:
      capacity:
        storage: 5Gi
      volumeMode: Filesystem
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteMany
      persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
      storageClassName: efs-sc
      csi:
        driver: efs.csi.aws.com

>         volumeHandle: {{ your file-system-id }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        volumeHandle: {{ <your-file-system-id> }}
```

Reviewer 2: I went with convention for k8s manifests, but if we want to use the `<user-defined-config>` format we should remove all the curly brackets

    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    metadata:
      name: nfs-sync

>       namespace: {{ airflow-deployment-namespace }}
>     spec:
>       accessModes:
>         - ReadWriteMany
>       storageClassName: efs-sc
>       resources:
>         requests:
>           storage: 5Gi
>     ---
>     apiVersion: apps/v1
>     kind: Deployment
>     metadata:
>       name: nfs-sync
>       namespace: {{ airflow-deployment-namespace }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      namespace: <your-airflow-deployment-namespace>
    spec:
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteMany
      storageClassName: efs-sc
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 5Gi
    ---
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: nfs-sync
      namespace: <your-airflow-deployment-namespace>
```

Reviewer: Assuming the `}}` aren't actually needed here?

                memory: 150Mi
            volumeMounts:
            - name: nfs-sync
              mountPath: "/dags"
          volumes:
          - name: nfs-sync
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: nfs-sync
    ```

6. Apply the manifest by running the following command:

    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f efs-nfs.yaml
    ```

### Step 5: Test a DAG deploy

You can use any example DAG to test your NFS Volume-based Deployment. For a quick example, run the Astronomer CLI command `astro dev init` in an empty directory and use the `example-dag.py` file that's created by the command.

With your example DAG, run the following commands:

```sh
export NAMESPACE=<your-deployment-namespace>

POD=$(kubectl -n $NAMESPACE get pod -l role=nfs-sync -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

kubectl -n $NAMESPACE cp example-dag.py $POD:/dags/example-dag.py
```

Open the Airflow UI from your Astronomer Deployment and verify that your DAG is there. Note that it can take up to 30 seconds for the DAG to appear.

To delete the DAG, run the following command:

```sh
kubectl -n $NAMESPACE exec $POD -- rm -rf /dags/example-dag.py
```

### Step 6: Set up CI/CD

> The following setup is Astronomer's recommended minimum setup for deploying DAGs to an NFS Volume via CI/CD. You'll be configuring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, Astronomer recommends the following setup for deploying DAGs to an NFS Volume via CI/CD. You'll be configuring:
```

- An IAM user with the minimum required access for deploying DAGs.
- A Kubernetes role for the IAM user.
- An example CI/CD job.

Note that you will want to adjust the configurations that are specified here based on the specifics of your installation.

1. Copy the following Kubernetes role for your IAM user and save it as `efs-server-role.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Role
    metadata:
      name: efs-nfs-role

>       namespace: <namespace-to-grant-access-to> # Should be namespace you are granting access to

Reviewer: is this a different namespace than the one above?

Reviewer 2: not necessarily, it can be though

    subjects:
    - namespace: <namespace-to-grant-access-to> # Should be namespace you are granting access to
      kind: User
      name: efs-nfs-sa
    ```

2. Save the following as `eks-cicd-policy.json`:

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "eks:ListFargateProfiles",
                    "eks:DescribeNodegroup",
                    "eks:ListNodegroups",
                    "eks:ListUpdates",
                    "eks:AccessKubernetesApi",
                    "eks:DescribeCluster",
                    "eks:ListClusters"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

3. Create the IAM policy using the following command:

    ```sh
    aws iam create-policy --policy-name eks-cicd-policy --policy-document file://eks-cicd-policy.json
    ```

4. Create an IAM user using the following command:

    ```sh
    aws iam create-user --user-name efs-nfs-sa
    ```

5. Attach your IAM policy to the user with the following command:

    ```sh

>     aws iam attach-user-policy --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:policy/eks-cicd-policy --user-name efs-nfs-sa

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    aws iam attach-user-policy --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::$<your-AWS-account-ID>:policy/eks-cicd-policy --user-name efs-nfs-sa
```

Reviewer: Assuming these are variables, we should rly be consistent with formatting! Is it in style guide?

Reviewer 2: it's because I had exported the environment variables earlier so the commands could be copy/pasted as is. Would remove them all if the preference is just to tell people to put their own thing

    ```

6. Create the mapping required for you IAM user to use the Kubernetes role:

    ```sh

>     eksctl create iamidentitymapping --cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} --arn arn:aws:iam::${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:user/efs-nfs-sa --username efs-nfs-sa

Reviewer: same here

Author: Not sure what we should do with the environment variables @paolaperaza , we don't use them in most of our doc setups so should we remove them altogether here? I don't think they provide any functionality beyond being easier to specify later on.

    ```

> 7. Configure a job in the CI/CD tool of your choice. We recommend using the job to package the code for your DAGs into .zip files and deploy the .zip files to your EFS file system. At a minimum, your job would be running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Configure a workflow with a CI/CD tool of your choice. We recommend that this CI workflow package your DAG Python files into `.zip` files and deploy the `.zip` files to your EFS file system. At a minimum, your CI workflow would be running the following commands:
```

Author: Reworded slightly

    spec:
      replicas: 1
      selector:
         matchLabels:
           role: nfs-sync
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            role: nfs-sync
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: nfs-sync
            image: centos
            command: ["/bin/sh"]
            args: ["-c", "while true; do echo $(date -u) && sleep 30; done"]
            resources:
              limits:
                cpu: 500m
                memory: 1024Mi
              requests:
                cpu: 100m
                memory: 150Mi
            volumeMounts:
            - name: nfs-sync
              mountPath: "/dags"
          volumes:
          - name: nfs-sync
            persistentVolumeClaim:
              claimName: nfs-sync
    ```

5. Apply the manifest by running the following command:

    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f efs-nfs.yaml
    ```

### Step 5: Test a DAG deploy

You can use any example DAG to test your NFS Volume-based Deployment. For a quick example, run the Astronomer CLI command `astro dev init` in an empty directory and use the `example-dag.py` file that's created by the command.

With your example DAG, run the following commands:

```sh

> POD=$(kubectl -n <your-deployment-namespace> get pod -l role=nfs-sync -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

Author: @cmarteepants Am I correct in assuming that we don't need a leading `export` statement here?

---
title: "Configure NFS Volume-based DAG Deploys on Astronomer"
navTitle: "Configure NFS Volumes"
description: "Set up NFS volume-based DAG deploys for Apache Airflow on Astronomer Enterprise."
---

## Overview

Starting in Astronomer Enterprise v0.25, you can use an external [Network File System (NFS) Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#nfs) to deploy DAGs to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.

> Unlike [deploying DAGs via the Astronomer CLI](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli), deploying DAGs to an NFS volume, such as Azure File Storage or Google Cloud Filestore, does not require rebuilding a Docker image and restarting your underlying Airflow service. When a DAG is added to an NFS volume, it automatically appears in the Airflow UI without requiring additional action or causing downtime. This type of deployment is useful for larger organizations who want a clear separation between Airflow envi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike [deploying DAGs via the Astronomer CLI](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli), deploying DAGs to an NFS volume, such as Azure File Storage or Google Cloud Filestore, does not require rebuilding a Docker image and restarting your underlying Airflow service. When a DAG is added to an NFS volume, it automatically appears in the Airflow UI without requiring additional action or causing downtime. This type of deployment is useful for larger organizations who want a clear separation between Airflow environments.
```

This guide provides the necessary setup for connecting an NFS volume to Astronomer as a DAG deploy option. Some considerations before completing this setup:

- You can configure NFS volumes only to deploy DAGs. To push dependencies or other requirements to your Airflow Deployment, you still need to update your `requirements.txt` and `packages.txt` files and deploy via either the [Astronomer CLI](docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli) or [CI/CD](docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/ci-cd). For more information on pushing code to your Airflow environment, read [Customize Images](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/develop/customize-image).
- If you configure an NFS volume for an Airflow Deployment, you can't deploy DAGs via the Astronomer CLI or an Astronomer service account. These options are available only for Deployments configured with an image-based deploy mechanism.
- You can configure NFS volumes only for Airflow Deployments running Airflow 2.0+.

## Enable NFS

> The following will describe, at a high level, the steps required to enable NFS volume-based DAG deploys on Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections will describe the steps required to enable NFS volume-based DAG deploys on Astronomer.
```

### Step 3: Configure Astronomer Deployments

For each Deployment you want to connect to your EFS file storage:

1. In the Astronomer UI, create a new Airflow Deployment or open an existing one.
2. Go to the **DAG Deployment** section of the Deployment's Settings page.
3. For your **Mechanism**, select **NFS Volume Mount**:

    ![Custom Release Name Field](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/astronomer-ui/nfs.png)

4. In the **NFS Location** field that appears, enter the location of your volume-based DAG directory as `<IP>:/<path>` (for example: `192.168.0.1:/path/to/your/dags`).
5. Save your changes.

From here, you can deploy DAGs to Airflow by adding them to your NFS volume. Note that the actual deploy process will vary based on what configurations you have for both your cloud and your NFS solution.

Read the following section for a complete example of implementing an NFS Volume using Amazon EFS.

## Example Setup: Amazon EFS

> The following setup represents a production implementation of NFS Volumes on Astronomer. Use this example as a reference when implementing your own NFS Volume deploy systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following setup represents a production implementation of NFS Volumes on Astronomer. Use this example as a reference when implementing your own NFS Volume deploy system.
```

1. Export environment variables specific to your installation:

    ```bash
    export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<your-eks-region>
    export CLUSTER_NAME=<your-cluster-name>
    ```

2. Check if you already have a linked OIDC Provider by first running the following command:

    ```sh
    aws eks describe-cluster --name ${CLUSTER_NAME} --query "cluster.identity.oidc.issuer" --output text
    ```

    Copy the last part of the url from this output. For example, if the output was `https://oidc.eks.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/id/EXAMPLED539D4633E53DE1B716D3041E` you would copy `EXAMPLED539D4633E53DE1B716D3041E`. With this ID, run the following commands:

    ```sh
    export ISSUER_ID=<example-ID>

    aws iam list-open-id-connect-providers | grep ${ISSUER_ID}
    ```

    If there is no output after the last command, create an OIDC provider:

    ```bash
    eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} --approve
    ```

### Step 2: Install an EFS CSI driver and EFS file system

> The EFS file system stores DAG code, while the EFS CSI driver manages communication between the EFS file system and your EKS cluster. To set up these components, follow the [Amazon documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/efs-csi.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EFS file system stores DAG code, while the EFS CSI driver manages communication between the EFS file system and your EKS cluster. To set up these components, follow [Amazon documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/efs-csi.html).
```
